---
layout: interior-page
title: 'Commissioners Bios'
parent: 'Shade Tree Commission'
---

**Steve Addeo** is a life-long resident of Rutherford serving as current chairman for the Rutherford Shade Tree Commission. He is a motivated landscape professional dedicated and committed to being a part of keeping the tree canopy of Rutherford healthy and beautiful. He has studied Horticulture at Rutgers University, and has completed numerous certification courses in all aspects of the landscape industry. Steve has been working for the Terre Company of NJ, a wholesale distribution company of trees, plants and landscaping supplies, as a senior staff member for the past 30 years. He consults with Landscape Architects, Garden Designers, Golf Courses, Municipalities, and Landscapers in acquiring proper tree species, planting locations, and designs needed for small and large scale plantings. Steve has conducted annual presentations, seminars and meetings for the New Jersey Landscape Contractors Association on various topics related to the industry. 

**Steve Savitsky** has served as chairman of the Rutherford Shade Tree Commission from its reformation in 2007 to 2016, having previously served on the Rutherford Historic Preservation Commission and the Rutherford Green Team.  He has overseen many of the Committee’s projects, including the Borough Tree conjunction with the NJ Meadowlands Commission’s GIS Dept. He has organized educational and community outreach programs such as the annual Tree Symposium, Labor Day and West End Street Fairs, and educational programs at Lincoln Elementary School. Steve is an illustrator and design professional for over 25 years providing many logos for the Rutherford Green Team.

**Greg Goumas** is currently the Tree Supervisor for the Rutherford DPW, and has been a member of the Shade Tree Commission since 2011. He has almost 30 years’ experience working in the tree care industry, working 6 years as a tree climber and Groundsman with Tamke Tree Experts in Basking Ridge, NJ. He has also operated a private tree business for 3 years, until an injury forced its closure. In 2003 Greg was hired as a tree climber for the Borough of Rutherford, and after becoming Tree Surgeon, was promoted to tree maintenance Supervisor, a position held for the past 5 years. He’s had his NJ Pesticide License for 20 years, and has been doing landscaping and landscape design for about 18 years. He has attended further education and recertification classes at Rutgers Agriculture COOP, and is currently going to school for a NJ Tree Expert License.

**Rick Hild** is a 25 year resident of Rutherford and a Graduate of Montclair State University with a Degree in Biology and Chemistry. He holds numerous Certifications in the Landscape Management Industry through Rutgers University, including Integrated Pest Management and has been a Bergen County Master Gardener since 2009. Rick has been in the Landscape Maintenance and Design Industry for over 30 years and is a past Landscape business owner. His knowledge and experience has allowed him the opportunity to be involved in various educational and volunteer activities in Rutherford and Bergen County such as the re-planting of the Memorial Park Grove, several Rutherford memorial plantings, the Borough Tree Conjunction with the NJ Meadowlands Commission’s GIS Department as a Mentor for Rutherford Girl Scouts Silver Award and various Bergen County Fairs as a Master Gardener representative.

**Frank Sasso** has been working for the Town of Secaucus for the past 29 years and has been a Supervisor for the past 20 Years. He is in charge of maintenance and beautification of all the Parks, Playgrounds, Athletic Fields and Municipal Buildings. Frank has served on the Shade Tree Committee for Secaucus for the past 25 Years and is the Administrator of Tree Conservation for the past 15 years.  Frank holds extensive Certifications from Rutgers University in Horticulture along with a Master Gardener’s Degree from there as well.  He resides in Rutherford with his wife Lauralyn and his step son Evan and is looking forward to preserving and enhancing Rutherford’s “Borough of Trees”.

