---
layout: blog
title: "Free Radon Test Kits"
---


**The Bergen County Department of Health Services, in cooperation with the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Environmental Radiation, Radon Section, is offering FREE radon test kits to Bergen County residents.**

Radon is a radioactive gas that comes from the breakdown of naturally occurring uranium in soil and rock. It is invisible, odorless, and tasteless and can only be detected by specialized tests. Radon enters homes through openings that are in contact with the ground, such as cracks in the foundation, small gaps around pipes, and sump pits.

According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, radon is the leading cause of lung cancer among non-smokers. Overall, radon is the second leading cause of lung cancer. Radon is responsible for about 21,000 lung cancer deaths every year in the United States. The Bergen County Department of Health Services recommends that all homes be tested for radon. Testing your home for radon is easy, and homes with high levels of radon can be fixed (mitigated). You can install a radon mitigation system yourself if you are highly experienced in making home repairs, or you can hire a New Jersey certified radon mitigation company to do the work for you. For information on how to obtain your FREE radon test kit, please contact the Bergen County Department of Health Services, Office of Environmental Health, Radon Program at 201-634-2804. To learn more about radon, please visit [www.njradon.org.](https://nj.gov/dep/rpp/radon/)
