---
layout: page
title: 'Understanding Redevelopment'
---

[Return to Community Development page](/community-development/)


**What does Redevelopment mean?**

The Redevelopment Process is a tool available to municipalities allowing them to, deliberately and with the input of the public, determine if a property is underutilized and should have new allowable uses that cause the property to be productive.  

**What is a PILOT?**

PILOTs are used in redevelopment projects in order to attract redevelopers by offering an alternative to conventional ad valorem taxes.

Redevelopment projects are frequently unable to attract private investment without assistance from the local government entity in the form of PILOT agreements or, in some cases, bond financing.

The combination of risk associated with redevelopment projects and uncertainty of conventional taxes make marginal projects difficult to finance.

**Common Misconceptions about PILOTs**

- *PILOTs = No Taxes*

  Under a PILOT agreement the property owner is still paying the municipality.

- *Under a PILOT, the Borough receives significantly less revenue than under conventional taxes.*

  The amount received by the municipality through the PILOT is sometimes equal or more than the amount the Borough would receive under conventional taxes.

- *The additional costs of services associated with the project exceed the PILOT revenue.*

  In most cases, a PILOT provides a net benefit to the municipality.

- *PILOTs cause an increase in property taxes for existing residents.*

   The revenue generated by the PILOT should exceed the costs associated with new residents.  A PILOT should generate revenue that reduces the burden on existing taxpayers.

