---
layout: blog
title: Congratulations Lieutenant Michael Garner!

---


Rutherford Police Lieutenant Graduates From FBI National Academy

Join us in congratulating Lieutenant Michael Garner (Assignment - Detective Bureau) as he recently graduated from the FBI National Academy.

The 284th session graduation took place Thursday at the National Academy in Virginia. Lieutenant Garner is one of only two active RPD officers who have completed the training in Quantico; Chief John R. Russo is a graduate of the 268th session. However RPD is known for having officers attend the program. The following retired members of RPD are graduates of FBI NA:

- Chief William Kraus 77th session 

- Captain Louis Arnold 92nd session

- Captain Charles Garabedian 96th session

- Lieutenant Michael Mazzaro 104th session 

- Lieutenant Thomas Arnold 118th session

- Chief Edward Caughey 134th session

- Sergeant Peter Parisi 146th session

- Captain Henry Walker 160th session.  

Nationally, fewer than one percent of officers have the opportunity to attend the program. The FBI National Academy program provides education and raises the standards of law enforcement through its personnel. Internationally it is known for its academic excellence, the National Academy offers 11 weeks of advanced communication, leadership, and fitness training. Participants must have proven records as professionals within their agencies to attend. On average, these officers have 21 years of law enforcement experience.

This graduating class consisted of 237 law enforcement officers from 49 states and the District of Columbia. The class included members of law enforcement from 25 countries, five military organizations, and five federal civilian organizations.

Michael Garner started his law enforcement career in Nutley, NJ in 1995. He transferred to RPD in 2002 and achieved the rank of Sergeant in 2013. In 2020 he was promoted to lieutenant. Since joining RPD, he has been assigned to the Detective Bureau.
